One of the key pieces of fine-tuning is the last layer.
In this CNN, the final layer has the dimensions of 1x1x1,000.
This means that it has the capability to classify between 1,000 different image classes.
If we wanted to use this architecture to say,
classify between 10 different types of diseases found on a chest x-ray,
we would need to replace this layer with a layer whose dimensions were 1x1x10.
Besides retraining waves on the last few layers,
as we talked about earlier,
we can also add new layers to train from scratch.
Experimenting with different combinations of these options is
a lot of trial and error and truly is an art.
There are tons of existing CNN architectures and
weights that have been trained and released into the deep learning community.
Nearly every day, incremental improvements to existing architectures are being made and
new publications are being written about
the accuracy increases scene by different weights and architectures.
The architecture that we've been using as an example in these slides is VGG16,
which was trained on a set of images called
ImageNet that contains over 14 million images.
The researchers who initially did this,
classified all of the images in ImageNet into 1,000 categories,
and train the VGG16 architecture to accurately
classify images between all 1,000 of those categories.
They then released not only their architecture,
but also the weights of their model to the general deep learning community.
This was revolutionary, and was one of the first pieces of
work to truly ignite the field of deep learning for image recognition.
Now you'll see that it's common practice for researchers interested in all types of
imaging to take these pre-trained weights and fine-tune them for their specific use case.
That's in fact what we will do in
our final course project for classification of disease and chest x-rays.
If we have an existing model architecture like VGG16,
and we want to freeze them layers,
all we need to do is set each layer's trainable parameter to be false.
Here, I'm setting the first 17 layers to be untrainable or frozen.
If I want to then add layers that are trainable and are new,
I would do the following.
I would take a new model and add my frozen VGG model to it.
Then I would just use the add function to add new types of layers.
Here, I'm adding a dense layer with
1024 parameters and the value activation function to my new model,
following my frozen VGG16 architecture.